Add new post about state of Rekor v2 (#95)
sigstore/sigstore-blog: content/rekor-evolution.md

+++
title = "sigstore.dev and Rekor evolution"

> date = "2026-06-10"

Reviewer: You’ll probably want to update this

tags = ["sigstore","rekor"]
draft = false
author = "Jussi Kukkonen, Google"
type = "post"
+++

If you have been following the Sigstore project over the last year, you know we’ve been rolling out [version 2 of Rekor](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor-tiles/), Sigstore's transparency log. The intent was to enable signing with Rekor v2 by default, but there's been a change of plans: **the sigstore.dev public good instance will continue using Rekor v1 as the default log for the foreseeable future.**

> Why are we staying with Rekor v1? We are trying to avoid breaking changes for Sigstore users, and the industry-wide transition to Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) looks like it may result in one. Keeping the public good instance at Rekor v1 may allow us to minimize disruption—stay tuned for a separate post about the PQC plans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Why are we staying with Rekor v1? While Rekor v2 provides greater infrastructure resiliency, it introduces breaking changes in client behavior. The industry-wide transition to Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) may also result in breaking changes to clients. Keeping the public good instance at Rekor v1 may allow us to minimize disruption until absolutely necessary—stay tuned for a separate post about the PQC plans.
```

> Why are we staying with Rekor v1? While Rekor v2 provides greater infrastructure resiliency, it introduces breaking changes in client behavior. The industry-wide transition to Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) may also result in breaking changes to clients. Keeping the public good instance at Rekor v1 may allow us to minimize disruption until absolutely necessary—stay tuned for a separate post about the PQC plans.

Reviewer: May also —> will

### Rekor v2 is Available (and Optimized)

> Even though we're not enabling signing by default, **Rekor v2 is running and available in production today**. It is also supported out-of-the-box by modern verifying clients. Ecosystems that manage their own signing processes can choose to opt into Rekor v2. The relevant `SigningConfig` needed by signing clients is available in [root-signing](https://github.com/sigstore/root-signing/blob/main/targets/signing_config_rekor_v2.v0.2.json).

Reviewer 3: Should we remind that clients should use this signingconfig and that we will rotate out shard URLs periodically (i'm planning to do so once we drop dsse support)

Author: I'd like to but it gets a bit complicated... the tuf client user (whether that's a custom app or a sigstore library) needs to know about this TUF artifact. Unsure how to document this in a way that makes sense to the reader

Reviewer 3: Can we say we strongly recommend clients consume this Signing Config over baking in URLs, and periodically fetch the latest through TUF? I think this line is specifically targeted to developers who should know a bit more about how metadata is distributed.

> Rekor v2 has many infrastructure advantages, but recently a client advantage was added that may be interesting to some ecosystems: Rekor v2 is compatible with large DSSE envelopes, as the whole envelope is no longer inserted into the log. Instead,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rekor v2 has many infrastructure advantages, but recently a client advantage was added that may be interesting to some ecosystems: Rekor v2 is compatible with large DSSE envelopes, as the whole envelope is no longer sent over to the network to be processed by the log. Instead,
```

the `hashedrekord` entry type is used for higher performance. For more technical details on this change, see the [Client Specification](https://github.com/sigstore/architecture-docs/blob/main/client-spec.md#44-transparency-log-entry) and the [Rekor v2 Specification](https://github.com/sigstore/architecture-docs/blob/main/rekor-v2-spec.md#43-types).

### Client compatibility with Rekor v2

This is an overview of the situation at the time of writing. Please refer to the [Sigstore Conformance](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-conformance/) Conformance Report for up-to-date test results and individual client project documentation for details.

**Compatible clients**

* [sigstore/cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign)
* [sigstore/sigstore-go](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-go)

> * [sigstore/sigstore-java](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-java)

Reviewer 2: we need to do a release of this, I can do that today/tomorrow.

Reviewer 2: this release is complete

Author: I think this means only sigstore-js is without a dsse-as-hashedrekord compatible release but I think I'd rather leave the details out of this post... The reality is always a bit too complicated (like, cosign does have a release but most people probably use cosign-installer and that does not)

> * [sigstore/sigstore-js](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-js)

Reviewer 2: is js all the way up to date with dsse on hashedrekord?

Reviewer 3: +1, I don't think it is.

Author: 100% result with conformance on main branch

https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-js/pull/1677

Reviewer 3: Oh sweet!
